Even if we do think in images, neither Hadamard nor Einstein have had much success in describing just what these images are or how they are represented in a biological structure like the brain. Nor have I. I believe, however, that Jill Larkin and I have recently made substantial progress in explaining these matters (see "Why a Diagram Is (Sometimes) Worth 10,000 Words," [Larkin and Simon 1987]). The basic ideas, which I will not elaborate upon here, are that (1) in the course of transforming verbal propositions into images, many things are made explicit that were previously implicit and hidden; and (2) (learned) inference operators facilitate making additional inferences from the images in computationally efficient ways.We also show, as a by-product of our analysis, that diagrams are representable as list structures, hence are programmable in standard list-processing languages, hence are readily representable in systems of neuron-like structures. Since the surface structures and the semantics of natural languages can also be represented as list structures, it follows that propositions and pictures (or at least diagrams) can use common representational machinery.	
Now just as there has long been a debate over whether we use words or images in our thoughts, so has there been a debate (perhaps the same debate) over whether our internal representations of problems look like collections of propositions or like models of the problem situations. Each of these views has been held by an important segment of the cognitive science community, and the two segments do not often communicate with each other, except sometimes to quarrel.	
One segment, under the banner "Let language lead the way," takes verbal reasoning as its metaphor for the problem-solving process, and thinks of reasoning as some kind of theorem-proving structure. The second segment of the cognitive science community uses heuristic search through a problem space (a mental model of the task domain) as its metaphor for problem solving. Human Problem Solving (Newell and Simon 1972) adheres strictly to this viewpoint.	
Let me return to my main topic of providing anecdotal evidence about the problem-solving processes used in scientific discovery with an example that I will present rather sketchily, to avoid technical detail. Economists frequently use what they call "partial equilibrium analysis," to avoid talking about everything at once by making a host of ceteris paribus assumptions. They examine the impact of a disturbance upon a small sector of the economy while assuming no interaction with the rest of the economy.	
If challenged on the legitimacy of this procedure, economists may defend themselves by saying that, of course, interactions are not completely absent but they are small, hence unimportant. We hear that argument not only in economics, but throughout all of science. But is it a satisfactory argument? Small effects, persisting over a long period of time, may accumulate into large effects.	
Thoughts of these kinds (represented as words or as images?) went	

through my mind while I read, in the early 1950s, a paper by Richard Goodwin, "Dynamical Coupling with Especial References to Markets Having Production Lags," published in Econometrica in 1947. Without claiming any clear recollection of the precise steps I took to formulate and solve the problem that his paper evoked, I recall conceiving of a large dynamic system divided into sectors, with strong interactions among the components in each sector, and weak interactions among sectors. I remember also that I worked very hard for several months to see how such a system would behave, and that I worked without paper and pencil while taking long walks.	
I held a vague mental image of the matrix of coefficients of the dynamic systemhardly surprising, since this is the way dynamic systems are normally represented in mathematics books. At some point, I saw that the rows and columns of the matrix could be arranged in a number of diagonal blocks with large coefficients in them, and only small coefficients outside the diagonal blocks. The matrix was "nearly block diagonal." The number of blocks and their sizes were not seen in detail. If forced to give numbers, I might say that there could have been three blocks, each three rows by three columns in sizebut the supposed recollection is surely a fabrication.	
At some later point, I acquired a metaphor. I visualized a building divided into rooms, each room divided, in turn, into cubicles. (You can find a diagram of my metaphor on page 212 of The Sciences of the Artificial [1981], 2nd ed.) We start out with an extreme disequilibrium of temperature, each cubic foot of each cubicle being at a different temperature from its neighbors.	
Several things now seemed obvious. Throughout each cubicle, a constant temperature would be established very rapidly by the exchange of heat between adjoining spaces. At some later time, each room would attain a constant temperature by heat diffusion through the walls of the cubicles. Still later, the entire building would reach a constant temperature by exchange of heat between the thicker walls of the rooms.	
Moreover, because of the differences in the durations involved, each of these processes of equilibration can be studied independently of the others. In studying the equilibration of each cubicle, we can ignore the other cubicles. In studying the equilibration of rooms, we can represent each cubicle by its average temperature, and ignore the other rooms. In studying the equilibration of the building, we can represent each room by its average temperature. As a result, the mathematics of the problem can be drastically simplified.	
There still were some difficult mathematical steps from this picture to rigorous proofs of the (approximate) validity of the simplification, but the result to be attained was clear. The reasoning I have described was carried	

 out mainly in the summer of 1956, and incorporated, together with the mathematics, in a paper written with Albert Ando later that year, but not published until 1961 (Simon and Ando 1961).	
I can throw no further light on the source of the heat exchange metaphor, or on how, if at all, I drew inferences from the image of the nearly-block-diagonal matrix. Block-diagonal matrices were not unfamiliar to me, for they had played an important role in my work on causal ordering in 1952 and 1953 (Simon 1952, 1953). The mathematics, which was fairly standard, would have been evoked, I think, in the mind of any mathematician who had put the problem in the form we did.	
Our theorems and methods (which may be used to invert matrices that are nearly block diagonal) have attracted the attention of numerical analysts, and of natural scientists who are concerned with hierarchically organized systems. The aggregation method we introduced has also now been recognized to be closely related to the so-called renormalization procedures that play an important role in several parts of physics, and that were invented quite independently of ours.	
Even with this sketchy account, the discovery process appears quite unremarkable. The problem was found in the literature (Goodwin's paper), and was represented in a standard way by matrices having a certain special structure. The metaphor, by showing how such a system would behave, made clear the nature of the theorems to be proved. Although nothing is revealed about the source of the metaphor, it is not at all esoteric. The proofs, while intricate, would not pose any great difficulty for a professional mathematiciana case of normal problem solving, we would have to conclude.x